DOC-12561 Continuous backup PITR (#4138)
couchbase/docs-server: modules/learn/pages/services-and-indexes/services/continuous-backup.adoc

= Continuous Backup & Point-in-Time Recovery
:description: pass:q[Continuous backup frequently backs up mutations to Magma buckets and records timestamps to enable Point-In-Time Recovery (PITR).]

> :enterprise-only:

Reviewer: I don't think this is the right flag to get the badge to show up. 

See: https://docs.couchbase.com/home/contribute/attributes-and-roles.html#optional-document-attributes

Think it should be `:page-edition: Enterprise Edition` if I'm assuming correctly about what you're trying to do?

For example, you may choose to have the Backup Service perform a daily full backup at midnight and then incremental backups every 2 hours.

[ditaa]
....
                                  Periodic Backups          
        +----------+                                                 +-----------+
        | cEEE     |                                                 | cEEE      |
        |   Full   |                                                 |Incremental|
        |  Backup  |                                                 |  Backup   |
Time ---+----------+-------------------------------------------------+-----------+------>
        |                                                            | 
        Midnight                                                     2:00 AM
....

Any data mutations made since the last periodic backup could be lost if there is data loss or corruption.

Continuous backup supplements full and incremental backups by performing backups at shorter intervals.
You can have it perform backups as frequently as every 2 minutes.
It can limit the loss of data mutations that take place between periodic full and incremental backups.

> For example, the following diagram shows a continuous backup that's configured to perform backups every 10 minutes. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the following diagram shows a continuous backup that's configured to perform backups every 10 minutes:
```

[ditaa]
....
                                  Continuous Backups          
        +----------+ +-+ +-+ +-+ +-+ +-+ +-+ +-+ +-+ +-+ +-+ +-+ +-+ +-----------+
        | cEEE     | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | cEEE      |
        |   Full   | +-+ +-+ +-+ +-+ +-+ +-+ +-+ +-+ +-+ +-+ +-+ +-+ |Incremental|
        |  Backup  |                                                 |  Backup   |
--------+----------+-------------------------------------------------+-----------+------>
        |                                                            | 
        | Midnight                                                   | 2:00 A.M.
....

== Point-in-Time Recovery

With periodic backups, you can only restore a bucket to the state it was in when it was backed up.
For example, consider the backups shown in the Periodic Backup diagram. 
You can only choose to restore the bucket to the state it was in at midnight or at 2 A.M. 
You cannot restore it to any state between the 2 backups.

> In addition to backing up data, continuous backup also records the timestamp of data mutations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With continuous backups, in addition to backing up data, the backup also records the timestamp of data mutations.
```

Reviewer: @ggray-cb Just noting this is still open, too.

These timestamps let you perform Point-In-Time Recovery (PITR)&#8212;restoring the bucket to the state it was in at a specific moment.

Using PITR, you can precisely recover from data loss or corruption.
For example, suppose a user accidentally flushed a bucket. 
You can restore the bucket to seconds before the flush occurred, recovering the lost data.

== How Continuous Backup Works

Continuous backup relies on a feature of the Magma storage engine to track changes to the data in a bucket.
Because it relies on these features, continuous backup is only available for Magma buckets.

> You cannot use it with Couchstore buckets.

Reviewer: With taking a "every page is page 1" approach, could we link to information about the bucket types, here?

You enable continuous backup on a per-bucket basis.

> You can choose to enable it for buckets that contain critical data while leaving it off for buckets that are not as vital or have few mutations.

Reviewer: Link to how to enable continuous backup?

=== Continuous Backup Locations

Continuous backup saves the data mutations and their timestamps to a backup storage location.
This location must be separate from the location of the backup repository for full and incremental backups.
All of the nodes in the cluster must have access to this storage location.
You can host the location on a shared network directory such as a Network File System (NFS) share.

> Continuous backup also supports storage locations on Amazon S3, Microsoft Azure Blob Storage, and Google's Cloud Storage.

Reviewer: It might feel silly, but maybe linking to information about these products? Just a general product page link will do.

You cannot use them to restore the bucket to an arbitrary point in time.

When choosing the retention period, you must balance between the cost of storing the backup data and the flexibility of restoring your bucket to an earlier time.
If you choose cloud storage for your continuous backup location, you pay data storage fees based on the amount of data you store.
These fees increase the longer you set the retention period. 

== How PITR Works

You can perform a PITR on a bucket to the same cluster or a different cluster.
When restoring to the same cluster, you can choose to restore to a new bucket or to the existing bucket.

If you're restoring to the original bucket, decide whether you want the bucket to be in the state it was in at the specific point in time. 
PITR does not automatically flush the bucket before performing a restore. 
PITR does not affect any documents added after the point in time you chose to restore to.
By default, PITR performs Compare and Swap (CAS) checks to avoid overwriting changes to documents that exist in the bucket.
You can choose to have it overwrite existing data in the bucket. 

> See xref:manage:manage-backup-and-restore/manage-pitr.adoc#pitr_force_updates[PITR Performance and Conflict Resolution] for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see xref:manage:manage-backup-and-restore/manage-pitr.adoc#pitr_force_updates[PITR Performance and Conflict Resolution].
```

> If you want an existing bucket to be exactly the way it was at the point in time you chose to restore to, flush the bucket before restoring.

Reviewer: Link to how to flush a bucket?

It then replays the mutations stored in the continuous backups since the last full or incremental backup. 
It continues replaying the mutations until it reaches the point in time you chose. 

[ditaa]
....
                                                                
    +----------+         +-----------+    
    | cEEE     |         | cEEE      |        Continuous Backups   
    |   Full   |  . . .  |Incremental+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+
    |  Backup  |         |  Backup   |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 
----+----------+---------+-----------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+*-+--+-->
         |                    |      |                     |
      Restored             Restored  |<------------------->|
       first                second      Continuous backups |
                                             replayed      |
                                                           |  
                                                        Selected     
                                                        point in 
                                                          time                                  
....

== Continuous Backup's Effects on the Cluster

> Enabling continuous backup has several impacts on the cluster and interactions with other features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enabling continuous backup has several impacts on the cluster and interactions with other features:
```

* Continuous backup increases the disk usage on nodes. 
Couchbase Server has to retain some files it would otherwise delete until continuous backup can back them up.
The amount of added disk space depends on the number of mutations and the length of the continuous backup interval.

* You must use the credential store to provide the credentials for any cloud storage locations you use for continuous backup.
The credential store has its own requirements---you must enable peer-to-peer encryption and encryption at rest for Couchbase Server configuration files.
See the credential store documentation for more information.

> // FIXME: add link to the credential store docs when they are done. 

Reviewer: Are you fixing this post-merge?

Author: Yes. Normally, I'd just figure out what I'd call the target doc and add the link and just try to land both features in the release branch around the same time. But since this is part of the preview release and credential store won't be done in time, I don't want to leave a broken link. I have filed [DOC-14531](https://jira.issues.couchbase.com/browse/DOC-14531) to remind me.

* As part of enabling continuous backup, you must enable the bucket's change history. 
Change history is a Magma feature that lets continuous backup record the mutations so it can replay them back during a PITR.
When you have continuous backup enabled for a bucket, you cannot turn off the bucket's change history setting.

+
When you enable continuous backup for a bucket, disabling change history for individual collections is not supported. 
Verify that no collection has a change history override setting on it before enabling continuous backup.

+

> See xref:learn:data/change-history.adoc[] for more information about change history.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about change history, see xref:learn:data/change-history.adoc[].
```

=== Continuous Backup and Unsafe Failover

For continuous backup to be able to reliably restore a bucket to a point in time, it must have a consistent history of the changes made to a bucket. 
An xref:learn:clusters-and-availability/hard-failover.adoc#performing-an-unsafe-failover[unsafe failover] can cause consistency issues in this history.
If you must perform an unsafe failover on a node, first stop the Couchbase Server process on it. 
Stopping the process prevents inconsistencies in history, and protects continuous backup's ability to perform a PITR.

> See xref:install:startup-shutdown.adoc[] to learn how to stop the Couchbase Server process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about how to stop the Couchbase Server process, see xref:install:startup-shutdown.adoc[].
```

=== Continuous Backup and Encryption at Rest

If you enable encryption at rest for a bucket's data, continuous backup needs to maintain a copy of the encryption at rest Data Encryption Keys (DEKs). 

> It needs its own copy of these keys because encryption at rest rotates its DEKs. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Continuous backup needs its own copy of the DEKs because encryption at rest rotates its DEKs. 
```

Therefore, the current DEKs are usually not the same ones continuous backup needs to decrypt older data in its backups. 
Continuous backup creates a backup of the DEKs along with the bucket's data so that it can decrypt the data itself.

You must configure continuous backup with access to a Key Management System (KMS) it can use to protect the DEKs it saves alongside the bucket data.
It uses the KMS to securely re-encrypt the DEKs.
This re-encryption protects the keys the same way encryption at rest does.
All nodes in the cluster must be able to connect to the KMS you configure for continuous backup.

If you have already configured a KMS to manage encryption keys for your periodic full and incremental backups, you can reuse it to manage the keys for continuous backup.

> 

Reviewer: We're missing some See Also links at the bottom, here.
